[Music.]
[Tom Turbiville]: Hello and welcome to Veterans of the Valley.
[Tom Turbiville]: I'm Tom Turbiville.
[Tom Turbiville]: Terry Rosser not only served two tours of Vietnam, but he also flew himself there.
[Tom Turbiville]: Seventy-four hours and ten stops along the way.
[Tom Turbiville]: That's just one story he has to tell.
[Tom Turbiville]: Like most Purple Heart winners, he does not think it that big a deal that he was wounded.
[Tom Turbiville]: What is a big deal to Terry Rosser is family, his alma mater, Texas A&M University, his faith, and his friends.
[Tom Turbiville]: And we welcome Terry Rosser to Veterans of the Valley.
[Tom Turbiville]: Terry, it is an absolute honor to have you here, and thank you for your service.
[Tom Turbiville]: We'll quickly go through your youth.
[Tom Turbiville]: You were born in March, you spent 10 years in Waco, moved to Bryan College Station in 1949.
[Tom Turbiville]: What was the community like back then?
[Terry Rosser]: It was very small, maybe 40,000 in both areas, and it was very small, 7,000 possibly.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right.
[Terry Rosser]: It was a small town, but it grew, obviously.
[Tom Turbiville]: It's obviously sort of like today.
[Tom Turbiville]: I imagine it's centered around the university and athletics and football team.
[Tom Turbiville]: That's back during the Bear Bryant era and all of that.
[Terry Rosser]: Yes, Bear Bryant came on, and our high school was Stephen F. Austin High School, which is now middle school.
[Terry Rosser]: In fact, we just had our 50-year reunion, the class of 56.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right.
[Tom Turbiville]: You went to Allen Military Academy, which was a junior college, right?
[Terry Rosser]: I loved Allen Military Academy Junior College.
[Terry Rosser]: They had great sports programs, and a lot of us learned how to study, something we didn't apply ourselves in high school.
[Terry Rosser]: And I learned to like the military, ROTC, which started this whole thing for me.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right.
[Tom Turbiville]: And then you went on to Texas A&M and actually three years in that ROTC program.
[Terry Rosser]: Three years and two years in advanced ROTC.
[Terry Rosser]: And then in 61, I was commissioned and graduated.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right.
[Terry Rosser]: Went on active duty that summer.
[Tom Turbiville]: Yeah, six weeks after graduation.
[Terry Rosser]: Yes.
[Tom Turbiville]: You were ready to go.
[Terry Rosser]: Wasn't much of a summer break.
[Terry Rosser]: On my way to Fort Benning, Georgia.
[Tom Turbiville]: Where you had infantry training then.
[Terry Rosser]: I was an infantryman, and I was an infantryman from 61 to 83.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right.
[Terry Rosser]: And the Army Aviation then became a combat armed branch.
[Terry Rosser]: So I was an infantryman for a long time, and I had infantry jobs.
[Tom Turbiville]: But then you went to Fort Rucker, Alabama, where you learned to fly.
[Terry Rosser]: Went to fly school at the Aviation Center in Fort Rucker, Alabama.
[Tom Turbiville]: Indeed. Vietnam.
[Terry Rosser]: It's in L.A., lower Alabama.
[Tom Turbiville]: Lower, lower Alabama.
[Tom Turbiville]: Let's talk about Vietnam and a fascinating part of your story is how you got there.
[Tom Turbiville]: You flew yourself, and I'm going to let you tell that story some 74 hours later and you're in Saigon.
[Tom Turbiville]: Talk about that trip.
[Terry Rosser]: I'll try to be quick, but we basically, after fly school, we received a transition to this aircraft, CV-2B Caribou.
[Terry Rosser]: Maybe I can put it in front of me here.
[Tom Turbiville]: Yeah, lift it up a little higher there.
[Terry Rosser]: A little higher, and it's...
[Terry Rosser]: De Havilland product, made in Canada.
[Terry Rosser]: It's a twin engine, R2000 Pratt & Whitney engines.
[Terry Rosser]: And we grew to love it.
[Terry Rosser]: It's very powerful.
[Terry Rosser]: It has a gull-like wing and carries airborne paratroopers.
[Terry Rosser]: And it carries a lot of other things, which we can talk about later.
[Terry Rosser]: But we received our mission and we took off from Fort Bragg with 18 aircraft en route to Vietnam.
[Terry Rosser]: And we flew up to Newfoundland
[Terry Rosser]: down to the Azores and then over to Spain was our plan.
[Terry Rosser]: My buddy and I, departing the Azores, he had serious engine trouble.
[Terry Rosser]: We had to return.
[Terry Rosser]: So now there was two, not 18.
[Terry Rosser]: There was just two of us.
[Terry Rosser]: Our world was reduced.
[Terry Rosser]: We fixed his aircraft.
[Terry Rosser]: We continued on.
[Terry Rosser]: And 200 miles out of Toro Horn Air Force Base in Madrid, Spain, I started losing the number two engine.
[Tom Turbiville]: My goodness.
[Terry Rosser]: And we pumped all the extra oil through our system out to the engine.
[Terry Rosser]: And it was, we were in violent thunderstorms over Spain.
[Tom Turbiville]: You must have thought combat had already started.
[Terry Rosser]: Yeah, I thought, I said, the Vietnam tear is going to be a piece of cake.
[Terry Rosser]: But the storms got worse and the engine was in serious trouble.
[Terry Rosser]: So I tried to climb because we were over the mountains.
[Terry Rosser]: And my friend Dean Schwartz looked back as a lightning bolt hit us.
[Terry Rosser]: And everybody screamed that the engine blew up.
[Terry Rosser]: But Dean told me we lit up like a big light bulb in the sky.
[Terry Rosser]: And I looked down, and sure enough, the engine was still trying to work.
[Terry Rosser]: But we landed later in a very demanding situation, rainstorm.
[Terry Rosser]: Got a new engine, took off later, and went to Verona, Italy.
[Terry Rosser]: And we took off there at 12 o'clock at night after the aircraft was repaired.
[Terry Rosser]: leveled off at 7,000 feet in the weather.
[Terry Rosser]: When I say in the weather, everybody, that means we couldn't see past the windshield.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right.
[Tom Turbiville]: 7,000 feet's not very high.
[Terry Rosser]: Oh, no, but we were there, leveled off, and number two, quit again.
[Terry Rosser]: They had forgotten to tighten an inch and a half fuel line that went into the engine.
[Terry Rosser]: So that time it was far more serious because we were way overloaded, and we were in trouble because when you
[Terry Rosser]: When you're overloaded, you need a longer airfield.
[Terry Rosser]: And we only had 3,000 foot.
[Terry Rosser]: We demanded 6,000.
[Terry Rosser]: Anyway, we cleaned up the engine.
[Terry Rosser]: And that means one has to turn the fuel and all the electricity off where you don't have a major fire.
[Terry Rosser]: But we ended up landing.
[Terry Rosser]: We saved the crew and saved everybody else on a very short runway.
[Terry Rosser]: And then the rest of the trip, although challenging, we had no more maintenance trouble.
[Terry Rosser]: So we sort of saved two aircraft, and we hadn't been to Vietnam yet.
[Tom Turbiville]: That's right.
[Tom Turbiville]: You eventually went to Athens, Adana, is that right?
[Terry Rosser]: Adana, Turkey.
[Terry Rosser]: Tehran, New Delhi.
[Terry Rosser]: Tehran, Iran.
[Terry Rosser]: And we stopped into Karachi, Pakistan, and we went through India.
[Terry Rosser]: New Delhi, New Delhi and Calcutta.
[Terry Rosser]: And then we went out over the water again, made our way to Saigon, South Vietnam.
[Tom Turbiville]: So you finally arrived for work.
[Terry Rosser]: Yes.
[Terry Rosser]: It was, in fact, somewhere along the line, I heard that Air Force pilots were getting, and I love the Air Force, they were getting DFCs for Distinguished Flying Crosses for saving an aircraft that lost engines.
[Terry Rosser]: And we got there, they said, where have you been?
[Tom Turbiville]: So anyway, you wanted your distinguished flying cross.
[Terry Rosser]: Well, I'd like to have been recognized.
[Tom Turbiville]: Indeed.
[Tom Turbiville]: First year of Vietnam in 1963.
[Tom Turbiville]: Talk a little bit about what your job was there as the pilot of the caribou.
[Terry Rosser]: Well, our main purpose was to resupply the special forces who were training
[Terry Rosser]: Mountain yard people, mountain people, are South Vietnamese soldiers.
[Terry Rosser]: And when I say resupply, that was pigs, chickens.
[Terry Rosser]: We'd carry ammunition, fuel, a lot of times together, fuel and ammunition, which is not so good.
[Terry Rosser]: But we basically kept them alive, brought them their building material.
[Terry Rosser]: That was before helicopters, basically.
[Terry Rosser]: So we either air landed on their real short, unimproved strips, mostly at times a clay road,
[Terry Rosser]: or we airdropped to them and we airdropped very low because if something drifted away, the bad guys got it instead of the good guys.
[Terry Rosser]: So it was very challenging.
[Terry Rosser]: We had a wonderful role.
[Terry Rosser]: I love the special forces and there, it was only about 13 to 15,000 of us in Vietnam then, mostly advisors and that army aviation.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right, right.
[Tom Turbiville]: You said that you're talking about some of your cargo, livestock,
[Tom Turbiville]: at some times, and that could get sort of challenging on takeoffs.
[Terry Rosser]: Well, we would take the cows, we'd run a strip through their neck apparatus and tie them on both sides of the aircraft in the center of it where the CG was, and everything looked good, but you start taking off, they would get a little excited and start moving around.
[Terry Rosser]: So it was not uncommon just to see the big old aircraft moving around the runway on takeoff because the cows were a little restless.
[Tom Turbiville]: You weren't there long, August of 1963, and talk about the event of the day that
[Tom Turbiville]: that ended up in you earning your Purple Heart?
[Terry Rosser]: Well, we were mad because they sent us on a PX run from Da Nang and northern part of Vietnam back to Saigon.
[Terry Rosser]: We didn't even bring our flak vests.
[Terry Rosser]: We were just mad.
[Terry Rosser]: We wanted to fly our combat missions.
[Terry Rosser]: But coming back, we decided the weather was getting bad.
[Terry Rosser]: And we decided we would just fly a certain route.
[Terry Rosser]: We lowered our altitude a little bit.
[Terry Rosser]: And about that time, we had a major explosion in the cockpit.
[Terry Rosser]: The crew chief told us later on, the young enlisted people, they're wonderful young people, that a blast of automatic weapons fire went by our tail section, and he was running forward when the cockpit was hit.
[Terry Rosser]: And at that time, it blew some people all around, and I immediately applied takeoff power, went into the weather where they couldn't see us anymore.
[Terry Rosser]: And then we climbed on up and leveled off above the weather.
[Terry Rosser]: When you fly in the weather in Vietnam, it's not like,
[Terry Rosser]: the United States with great radar control, you're basically taking the chance that you won't hit anybody else that's in the weather.
[Terry Rosser]: You just don't know where everybody is.
[Terry Rosser]: Anyway, I asked Jim Covington, the young man with me, if he was hurt, and he was.
[Terry Rosser]: And he was bleeding pretty bad from his leg.
[Terry Rosser]: We sat on armor plating.
[Terry Rosser]: We had armor plating on our sides.
[Terry Rosser]: But there was all sorts of holes where things could hit us.
[Terry Rosser]: But the most traumatic part of it was neither one of us could hear initially.
[Terry Rosser]: It was so loud.
[Terry Rosser]: So we thought we'd lost our hearing.
[Terry Rosser]: And I remember my arm stinging, but then I was flying, which you're trained to do.
[Terry Rosser]: But we got Jim back, and they bandaged him somewhat.
[Terry Rosser]: And then I looked down and saw my arm was bleeding.
[Terry Rosser]: So it knocked out a system or two in the aircraft, so we had a challenging landing.
[Terry Rosser]: But then they took us to the flight surgeon, an old ornery Air Force guy, old to me then, but...
[Terry Rosser]: He took care of Jim first and then he came in and saw me and he told me that he was writing us up for a Purple Heart.
[Terry Rosser]: And they do that.
[Terry Rosser]: We don't do it.
[Terry Rosser]: They do that.
[Terry Rosser]: Send it through channels.
[Terry Rosser]: And I said, why?
[Terry Rosser]: I'm not hurt that bad.
[Terry Rosser]: And he basically chastised me and said, would you rather the round bent a foot over and blown your head off or that would have made you happy?
[Terry Rosser]: So he made his point and I shut up and we went on.
[Tom Turbiville]: And you probably have your Purple Heart.
[Terry Rosser]: Yes.
[Tom Turbiville]: But we talked about how you made a plane that you did not want next of kin notified for fear that they might think it was more serious than it really was.
[Terry Rosser]: Every young soldier, Sailor, Airman, Marine, has an opportunity to sign some forms.
[Terry Rosser]: If I have a minor wound that keeps me in the hospital briefly or not at all, I would like to not tell my parents or my loved one or my wife.
[Tom Turbiville]: Your wife.
[Tom Turbiville]: You were married at the time.
[Terry Rosser]: Had a wife and a small girl.
[Tom Turbiville]: We'll talk about your family in a moment.
[Tom Turbiville]: You flew a total of 860 combat hours in two tours, actually, of Vietnam.
[Terry Rosser]: My total combat time was 816 hours, yes.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right, right.
[Tom Turbiville]: Let's go to between your tours of Vietnam, you had another combat tour of duty.
[Tom Turbiville]: Talk a little bit about that.
[Terry Rosser]: When the U.S.
[Terry Rosser]: was asked to go to the Dominican Republic, I was assigned there as an operations officer, sort of a ground infantry assignment.
[Terry Rosser]: I had aviation infantry assignments.
[Terry Rosser]: And it was very interesting, and we were, of course, trying to keep the Americans safe during that turmoil down there and to allow free elections to take place.
[Terry Rosser]: And Juan Balguer was elected president, and the Dominican Republic stabilized, and we brought everybody home.
[Terry Rosser]: But they did shoot at us occasionally, and our young men did very well there in combat.
[Tom Turbiville]: You told me when we were talking that you were talking about
[Tom Turbiville]: what your uncle once told you.
[Tom Turbiville]: Your uncle was in World War II.
[Terry Rosser]: Oh, yes.
[Tom Turbiville]: And you talked about flying and the things that scared him in that order.
[Tom Turbiville]: Talk about that.
[Terry Rosser]: I guess we should say challenges for all these big, brave men and women.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right, challenged him.
[Terry Rosser]: What did scare you?
[Terry Rosser]: And he talked about weather first, severe weather, and then maintenance difficulties, which we've mentioned already.
[Terry Rosser]: Both of them, matter of fact.
[Terry Rosser]: And then the enemy.
[Terry Rosser]: And I realized, yeah.
[Terry Rosser]: And here he is, a fighter pilot in World War II.
[Terry Rosser]: a pilot in the Korean War, and also in Vietnam.
[Terry Rosser]: And those were still our priorities.
[Terry Rosser]: Because if you run into bad weather, you've got to handle that.
[Terry Rosser]: If you have maintenance problems, that's a more serious challenge.
[Terry Rosser]: And then there's the enemy, which can obviously hurt you as well.
[Tom Turbiville]: Indeed.
[Tom Turbiville]: I want to go ahead and if we can right now, I'd like to go to some photographs that Terry has supplied us.
[Tom Turbiville]: These are photographs that actually hang on the wall in his home and some other photographs that he found from his days in Vietnam, some 40 something years ago.
[Tom Turbiville]: If we can go ahead and go to some of those photographs.
[Tom Turbiville]: Here's a young Terry Rosser.
[Tom Turbiville]: How old were you there?
[Terry Rosser]: 1965, about 26 I guess.
[Tom Turbiville]: pretty sharp haircut.
[Terry Rosser]: I was in Vietnam when I was 25 years old, so that's right after.
[Terry Rosser]: I wasn't very old.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right. So that was right about the end of your first tour, right around...
[Terry Rosser]: Yes, just after my first tour at Fort Benning, Georgia.
[Tom Turbiville]: All right.
[Terry Rosser]: Lieutenant Terry Rosser.
[Tom Turbiville]: All right, we'll move on to the next photograph.
[Tom Turbiville]: What are we looking at there?
[Terry Rosser]: This is when I was a brigade commander at Fort Rucker, Alabama.
[Terry Rosser]: I was a
[Terry Rosser]: God blessed me with the command of the 1st Aviation Brigade Air Assault, and it's a wonderful IP&I, and we were trying to get into an AH-1S Attack Cobra for a mission.
[Terry Rosser]: And one of our battalions in the brigade was an attack helicopter battalion.
[Terry Rosser]: And those young men defend and help our infantrymen so well.
[Terry Rosser]: And they have cannons in the front, and you have missiles, and it's a pretty capable aircraft.
[Tom Turbiville]: All right, move on to another
[Tom Turbiville]: Photograph?
[Terry Rosser]: This was on a brigade field training exercise, and I just stopped like, you know, bosses get to stop and sweep down and talk to the subordinate commanders and ask things, how are things going?
[Terry Rosser]: So that was my opportunity at that point.
[Tom Turbiville]: That's you on the right?
[Terry Rosser]: Yes, I'm on the right, and I'd just gotten out of the helicopter and talking with Stan there, one of our battalion commanders.
[Tom Turbiville]: Okay.
[Tom Turbiville]: Move on.
[Terry Rosser]: This is in Vietnam.
[Terry Rosser]: We're way back in 1963 again.
[Terry Rosser]: These are some Montagnards that I mentioned.
[Terry Rosser]: They're small people.
[Terry Rosser]: They're feisty.
[Terry Rosser]: They're very nice.
[Terry Rosser]: And this was sort of a look at the aircraft.
[Terry Rosser]: This was at Tabat, Vietnam.
[Terry Rosser]: It was a clay strip high in the mountains and not much room for error.
[Terry Rosser]: We sort of wore flak vests.
[Terry Rosser]: We took off our pistols and stuff like that when we flew.
[Terry Rosser]: But the flak vest was about all we had.
[Terry Rosser]: It wouldn't stop anything but flak, but it was a flak vest.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right.
[Tom Turbiville]: And is that the caribou in the background?
[Terry Rosser]: And that's the caribou in the background.
[Terry Rosser]: Tabat, Vietnam.
[Terry Rosser]: Asha Lui, Tabat Valley.
[Terry Rosser]: People have heard about that.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right.
[Tom Turbiville]: Gentlemen on the left, people at least of our age may be familiar with Dr. Henry Kissinger, and that's you on the right.
[Tom Turbiville]: Talk about this event.
[Terry Rosser]: February of 1976, our unit from Fort Hood.
[Terry Rosser]: I was a major troop commander of this aircraft.
[Terry Rosser]: Some 18 aircraft in a company.
[Tom Turbiville]: We'll show that in a moment.
[Tom Turbiville]: Go ahead.
[Terry Rosser]: Oh, yes, that's right.
[Terry Rosser]: We can see that.
[Terry Rosser]: But we took a CH-47 Chinook mission down to Guatemala to help those people.
[Terry Rosser]: It was a terrible earthquake, 7.62 on the Richter scale.
[Terry Rosser]: And Secretary of State Kissinger came down to visit our last day.
[Terry Rosser]: And he was asking me, you always present yourself.
[Terry Rosser]: And I said, wagon master six.
[Terry Rosser]: That was our call sign.
[Terry Rosser]: And he said, what is this wagon master?
[Terry Rosser]: And so I had to explain what that meant.
[Terry Rosser]: But he was a very nice gentleman and he honored us by his visit to our area.
[Tom Turbiville]: All right.
[Tom Turbiville]: We've got a couple of more.
[Tom Turbiville]: You're being given an award here.
[Terry Rosser]: This is a General Stilwell in South Vietnam back in 1963.
[Terry Rosser]: And this is myself receiving my first air medal.
[Tom Turbiville]: Mm-hmm.
[Terry Rosser]: It is unique, Tom, because the medals I received in Vietnam early on were made in World War II.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right.
[Tom Turbiville]: Amazing.
[Tom Turbiville]: Now, this is the final picture you're able to fit there on the screen.
[Tom Turbiville]: This is an early and a later in your military career.
[Tom Turbiville]: Talk about that.
[Terry Rosser]: Yes.
[Terry Rosser]: The one on the left is 1963, flying in some kind of bad weather in Vietnam.
[Terry Rosser]: And a fellow took a picture of me.
[Terry Rosser]: And then...
[Terry Rosser]: 24 years later, the staff was wonderful for me there in the brigade, and they requested to receive a caribou to be sent from the National Guard.
[Terry Rosser]: They brought it up to Fort Rucker, and I received a currency ride.
[Terry Rosser]: So I became current again in 1987 as a current brigade commander.
[Terry Rosser]: It was such a great honor for me to be able to fly that aircraft early and then late in my career.
[Tom Turbiville]: I bet that wasn't real, indeed.
[Tom Turbiville]: You talked about some things while looking at the pictures that we're going to refer to here in just a second.
[Tom Turbiville]: Your second tour of Vietnam, I'm going to let you just go ahead and say to me what you said to me the other day.
[Tom Turbiville]: There's a lot of that that you haven't discussed and you don't discuss, but tell us what you can.
[Terry Rosser]: It was just a very sensitive mission that I've swore to secrecy then, and I'm going to remain that way today, but it was a sensitive mission, and I flew a lot of hours, and I flew with a lot of great people, but
[Terry Rosser]: It was 68, 69.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right.
[Terry Rosser]: It was right there where the Tet Offensive was stopping, so we got involved in that.
[Terry Rosser]: But it was a demanding but rewarding tour as well.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right.
[Tom Turbiville]: Let's fast forward now.
[Tom Turbiville]: Mid-70s, we saw the photograph a moment ago, and really what was a humanitarian mission to Guatemala.
[Tom Turbiville]: Talk about that.
[Terry Rosser]: Yes, the unit at Fort Hood, often our Chinook unit went to South America.
[Terry Rosser]: They had a terrible earthquake in Nicaragua.
[Terry Rosser]: And so here in February of 76, 7.6 earthquake in Guatemala.
[Terry Rosser]: And we sent a contingent down there, flew down, set up camp, and we delivered corn, beans, critical food material, and water to the countryside.
[Terry Rosser]: And the countryside is where the Indians live.
[Terry Rosser]: And they had a lot of destruction.
[Terry Rosser]: All the lines of communication, the bridges, the roads were destroyed.
[Terry Rosser]: And so it was a blessing for Army people to be able to go to a country in Central America and give them life essential products.
[Terry Rosser]: And it helped them.
[Terry Rosser]: The overall relations between America, that one mission, and a country in Central America.
[Terry Rosser]: Because we were there helping people survive versus some other type of mission.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right.
[Tom Turbiville]: And you told me that most soldiers, most military people will say that it is the humanitarian missions that they remember more than the combat missions.
[Terry Rosser]: Tom, I know of no one, no one ever told me, and I was in the infantry and combat arms, they wanted to go out and kill somebody.
[Terry Rosser]: But they always...
[Terry Rosser]: wanted to go help somebody.
[Terry Rosser]: We're asked to go and defend our country and to take up arms, but it's not a desired role.
[Terry Rosser]: We'd rather do something that helps someone.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right.
[Tom Turbiville]: Later in your career, and you talk about it, you say that you were blessed, you say that you were honored, and certainly were as command tours.
[Tom Turbiville]: a couple of them for a battalion and a brigade.
[Tom Turbiville]: Talk about that part of your career.
[Terry Rosser]: In the mid 70s, the Army decided to put together boards of officers and select future commanders.
[Terry Rosser]: So I was honored to be one of the first battalion commanders selected.
[Terry Rosser]: I was one out of 23 selected to command an aviation battalion in 77.
[Terry Rosser]: And then I was blessed again because leading soldiers is a wonderful
[Terry Rosser]: obligation, wonderful responsibility, and you cannot take that lightly.
[Terry Rosser]: It's a 24-hour a day job, but it's also a blessing.
[Terry Rosser]: So, and then in 1985, I was selected to command one of seven in the Army aviation brigades, and that was another blessing in my life, as well as a challenge, because it was 7,000 folks.
[Tom Turbiville]: Indeed.
[Terry Rosser]: That's a good-sized little city.
[Tom Turbiville]: Exactly.
[Terry Rosser]: And somebody's, there's always a couple in trouble.
[Terry Rosser]: But luckily, there's always a whole bunch of doing great things, so you can go pat them on the back and award them something.
[Tom Turbiville]: You were a commander of a Chinook helicopter company in Fort Hood, and I think we can hold up the model now.
[Terry Rosser]: Oh, yes.
[Tom Turbiville]: Hold it up there high around your tight end.
[Terry Rosser]: We're back now to 74 through 76, and this is a wonderful, powerful helicopter, and you see them over the skies in Iraq and Afghanistan today.
[Terry Rosser]: But it's really a workhorse, one of the workhorses of what we took to Guatemala.
[Terry Rosser]: And it's a wonderful, wonderful aircraft, helicopter.
[Tom Turbiville]: After your military career, you became an educator.
[Tom Turbiville]: You became a teacher right here at Blinn for several years in communications and also in journalism.
[Tom Turbiville]: In our closing minutes, I want to talk about a few things.
[Tom Turbiville]: First off, you're one of the few guests that we've had here that have worn their uniform.
[Tom Turbiville]: proudly, I might say.
[Tom Turbiville]: Talk a little bit about this uniform that you wear.
[Terry Rosser]: Well, I purchased this uniform, Tom, a couple of months ago because my son-in-law was promoted to 06 Captain in the Navy, and he had lost his father, so he asked me to come up and swear him to that office.
[Terry Rosser]: So it was an honor for me.
[Terry Rosser]: So I went and got me a uniform just a little bit bigger than the one I ditched in 87.
[Terry Rosser]: Not much bigger.
[Terry Rosser]: And I wanted to tell everybody that might be watching this program that the uniform must be worn properly.
[Terry Rosser]: This uniform I have is what we call a class B uniform.
[Terry Rosser]: It's similar to your sports suit that you have on or a business suit.
[Terry Rosser]: Notice I have ribbons, not a medal.
[Terry Rosser]: And so if you were to put on a tux and I would put on a more formal uniform, I might, I then have the opportunity to wear a medal, a full medal.
[Tom Turbiville]: Mm-hmm.
[Terry Rosser]: But I'm hurt, Tom, when I see people in various stages of dress, ripped up fatigues that have a medal on that they may or may not have earned.
[Terry Rosser]: A person who served their country, served their service honorably, I don't think would ever wear a medal on a ripped up pair of fatigues.
[Terry Rosser]: They mean too much.
[Terry Rosser]: They're from our government to us.
[Terry Rosser]: So be weary of those who
[Terry Rosser]: dress very casually and have metal stuck all over them.
[Tom Turbiville]: Terry, we said from the outset that one of the things that does mean a lot to you is your family.
[Tom Turbiville]: Talk about your family.
[Tom Turbiville]: You married Myrna Black in 1959.
[Terry Rosser]: Yeah, 59.
[Terry Rosser]: Myrna Louise Black, her father of Great First Sergeant, World War II veteran.
[Terry Rosser]: We married in 59.
[Terry Rosser]: We're going on 48 years.
[Terry Rosser]: She's been a blessing to me, and like in many professions, a lovely, helpful wife makes it worthwhile.
[Tom Turbiville]: Sure.
[Terry Rosser]: I have three daughters, Tenise, class of 83 here at A&M.
[Terry Rosser]: Middle daughter, class of 04, she started in 79 but now 04.
[Terry Rosser]: And my youngest went to Blinn College and received her medical degrees.
[Terry Rosser]: So they're all married.
[Terry Rosser]: We have five grandchildren.
[Terry Rosser]: We...
[Terry Rosser]: Sorry, four, four.
[Terry Rosser]: Four grandchildren.
[Terry Rosser]: Excuse me.
[Terry Rosser]: I'll be tickled by that.
[Terry Rosser]: Embarrassed by that.
[Terry Rosser]: Joel, our oldest, is class of 09 here at A&M.
[Terry Rosser]: Then we have Kelly, who's in high school here, and two little boys down in spring.
[Terry Rosser]: But family has been always very special, and I've been blessed by a wonderful family.
[Tom Turbiville]: As we said, you taught at Blinn, a lot of students that learned communication and journalism.
[Tom Turbiville]: And I've got to know you personally a lot through that.
[Tom Turbiville]: And you were a football official for 22 years.
[Tom Turbiville]: That's another passion that you still have a passion for the game.
[Terry Rosser]: Well, I love football.
[Terry Rosser]: I love it being in the service.
[Terry Rosser]: You love young people because that's who fights our wars, young people.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right.
[Terry Rosser]: And a few old ones to lead them.
[Terry Rosser]: But I love the sports arena.
[Terry Rosser]: And I enjoyed high school football very much.
[Terry Rosser]: It's very exciting.
[Terry Rosser]: It's like a flight in aviation.
[Terry Rosser]: There's not a flight that's the same.
[Terry Rosser]: There's no two plays the same.
[Terry Rosser]: So you're always wondering what's going to happen next.
[Terry Rosser]: And some of the most unusual things do happen on the football field.
[Tom Turbiville]: Indeed.
[Tom Turbiville]: In high school football, you've got to love it because you've been on the fields that are made of grass and the ones that are made of dirt, right?
[Terry Rosser]: Yes.
[Terry Rosser]: I've been on the cow field where the ball rolls off.
[Terry Rosser]: No astroturf, but I've been on
[Terry Rosser]: Some fields where I think a pasture patio or two were there right before the game.
[Terry Rosser]: And, of course, our share of fire ants.
[Terry Rosser]: But a lot of wonderful kids and coaches play high school football in the state of Texas.
[Terry Rosser]: It was a blessing being part of that.
[Tom Turbiville]: I know that from your journalism experience, you're a writer.
[Tom Turbiville]: You write articles for magazines.
[Tom Turbiville]: You're also a poet.
[Tom Turbiville]: You're very involved with your church and with Special Olympics.
[Tom Turbiville]: So you stay busy, don't you?
[Terry Rosser]: Well, I've backed off a little bit because my doctor told me to, but I think a man's healthier if he stays busy.
[Terry Rosser]: In fact, my doctor said, just don't sit.
[Tom Turbiville]: Right.
[Terry Rosser]: Just don't sit.
[Terry Rosser]: So I'm not sitting.
[Tom Turbiville]: No, you're not.
[Tom Turbiville]: Came by your house yesterday and you were lifting weights, so I know that you're not sitting.
[Tom Turbiville]: We've just got about a minute.
[Tom Turbiville]: In about 20 seconds, talk to the veterans, your fellow veterans.
[Tom Turbiville]: Yes.
[Tom Turbiville]: I know you want to say something to them.
[Terry Rosser]: First time, I want to thank you, your staff, the young people here today.
[Terry Rosser]: I want to thank the sponsors and KMU for having us veterans.
[Terry Rosser]: And I'd really like to speak to veterans who
[Terry Rosser]: Hopefully we'll be watching that.
[Terry Rosser]: We thank you.
[Terry Rosser]: We thank you for your honorable service to our country, and we just pray for your safety.
[Terry Rosser]: So thank you for your service.
[Tom Turbiville]: All right.
[Tom Turbiville]: Terry Rosser, thank you very much for your service, and thank you for being here.
[Terry Rosser]: Pleasure, Tom.
[Tom Turbiville]: Whether it was a teacher of soldiers or later a teacher of blend students, Terry Rosser is rightly proud of his service.
[Tom Turbiville]: He and Myrna deserve the joy of their retirement, and we salute him for giving some of his most vital years to serve his country.
[Tom Turbiville]: And we salute all veterans.
[Tom Turbiville]: I'm Tom Turbiville.
[Tom Turbiville]: Be sure and join us next time on Veterans of the Valley.
[Music.]
[Commercial]: In honor of the veterans who have served our country, both past and present, First National Bank proudly sponsors Veterans of the Valley.
[Commercial]: Since 1862, First National has provided local decision-making and accessibility, as well as banking products and services to Brazos Valley citizens.
[Commercial]: First National Bank.
[Commercial]: First, always.
[Music.]
[Commercial]: There is a moment when you know you'll never be the same.
[Commercial]: A moment when their genius sparks a new way to see, to think, to be more.
[Commercial]: Big idea!
[Commercial]: Defining moments.
[Commercial]: Definitive portraits of the icons of our time.
[Commercial]: American Masters.
[Commercial]: Only on PBS.
[Commercial]: KAMUDT College Station.